examples/wanvideo/README.md, before:

# Wan-Video

Wan-Video is a collection of video synthesis models open-sourced by Alibaba.

Before using this model, please install DiffSynth-Studio from **source code**.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/modelscope/DiffSynth-Studio.git
cd DiffSynth-Studio
pip install -e .
```

Wan-Video supports multiple Attention implementations. If you have installed any of the following Attention implementations, they will be enabled based on priority.

* [Flash Attention 3](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention)
* [Flash Attention 2](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention)
* [Sage Attention](https://github.com/thu-ml/SageAttention)
* [torch SDPA](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.functional.scaled_dot_product_attention.html) (default. `torch>=2.5.0` is recommended.)

## Inference

### Wan-Video-1.3B-T2V

Wan-Video-1.3B-T2V supports text-to-video and video-to-video. See [`./wan_1.3b_text_to_video.py`](./wan_1.3b_text_to_video.py).

Required VRAM: 6G

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/124397be-cd6a-4f29-a87c-e4c695aaabb8

Put sunglasses on the dog.

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/272808d7-fbeb-4747-a6df-14a0860c75fb

[TeaCache](https://github.com/ali-vilab/TeaCache) is supported in both T2V and I2V models. It can significantly improve the efficiency. See [`./wan_1.3b_text_to_video_accelerate.py`](./wan_1.3b_text_to_video_accelerate.py).

### Wan-Video-14B-T2V

Wan-Video-14B-T2V is an enhanced version of Wan-Video-1.3B-T2V, offering greater size and power. To utilize this model, you need additional VRAM. We recommend that users adjust the `torch_dtype` and `num_persistent_param_in_dit` settings to find an optimal balance between speed and VRAM requirements. See [`./wan_14b_text_to_video.py`](./wan_14b_text_to_video.py).

We present a detailed table here. The model is tested on a single A100.

|`torch_dtype`|`num_persistent_param_in_dit`|Speed|Required VRAM|Default Setting|
|-|-|-|-|-|
|torch.bfloat16|None (unlimited)|18.5s/it|40G||
|torch.bfloat16|7*10**9 (7B)|20.8s/it|24G||
|torch.bfloat16|0|23.4s/it|10G||
|torch.float8_e4m3fn|None (unlimited)|18.3s/it|24G|yes|
|torch.float8_e4m3fn|0|24.0s/it|10G||

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3908bc64-d451-485a-8b61-28f6d32dd92f

### Wan-Video-14B-I2V

Wan-Video-14B-I2V adds the functionality of image-to-video based on Wan-Video-14B-T2V. The model size remains the same, therefore the speed and VRAM requirements are also consistent. See [`./wan_14b_image_to_video.py`](./wan_14b_image_to_video.py).

**In the sample code, we use the same settings as the T2V 14B model, with FP8 quantization enabled by default. However, we found that this model is more sensitive to precision, so when the generated video content experiences issues such as artifacts, please switch to bfloat16 precision and use the `num_persistent_param_in_dit` parameter to control VRAM usage.**

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/adf8047f-7943-4aaa-a555-2b32dc415f39)

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c0bdd5ca-292f-45ed-b9bc-afe193156e75

## Train

We support Wan-Video LoRA training and full training. Here is a tutorial. This is an experimental feature. Below is a video sample generated from the character Keqing LoRA:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9bd8e30b-97e8-44f9-bb6f-da004ba376a9

Step 1: Install additional packages

```
pip install peft lightning pandas
```

Step 2: Prepare your dataset

You need to manage the training videos as follows:

```
data/example_dataset/
├── metadata.csv
└── train
    ├── video_00001.mp4
    └── image_00002.jpg
```

`metadata.csv`:

```
file_name,text
video_00001.mp4,"video description"
image_00002.jpg,"video description"
```

We support both images and videos. An image is treated as a single frame of video.

Step 3: Data process

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES="0" python examples/wanvideo/train_wan_t2v.py \
  --task data_process \
  --dataset_path data/example_dataset \
  --output_path ./models \
  --text_encoder_path "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/models_t5_umt5-xxl-enc-bf16.pth" \
  --vae_path "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/Wan2.1_VAE.pth" \
  --tiled \
  --num_frames 81 \
  --height 480 \
  --width 832
```

After that, some cached files will be stored in the dataset folder.

```
data/example_dataset/
├── metadata.csv
└── train
    ├── video_00001.mp4
    ├── video_00001.mp4.tensors.pth
    ├── video_00002.mp4
    └── video_00002.mp4.tensors.pth
```

Step 4: Train

LoRA training:

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES="0" python examples/wanvideo/train_wan_t2v.py \
  --task train \
  --train_architecture lora \
  --dataset_path data/example_dataset \
  --output_path ./models \
  --dit_path "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/diffusion_pytorch_model.safetensors" \
  --steps_per_epoch 500 \
  --max_epochs 10 \
  --learning_rate 1e-4 \
  --lora_rank 16 \
  --lora_alpha 16 \
  --lora_target_modules "q,k,v,o,ffn.0,ffn.2" \
  --accumulate_grad_batches 1 \
  --use_gradient_checkpointing
```

Full training:

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES="0" python examples/wanvideo/train_wan_t2v.py \
  --task train \
  --train_architecture full \
  --dataset_path data/example_dataset \
  --output_path ./models \
  --dit_path "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/diffusion_pytorch_model.safetensors" \
  --steps_per_epoch 500 \
  --max_epochs 10 \
  --learning_rate 1e-4 \
  --accumulate_grad_batches 1 \
  --use_gradient_checkpointing
```

If you wish to train the 14B model, please separate the safetensor files with a comma. For example: `models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00001-of-00006.safetensors,models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00002-of-00006.safetensors,models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00003-of-00006.safetensors,models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00004-of-00006.safetensors,models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00005-of-00006.safetensors,models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00006-of-00006.safetensors`.

If you wish to train the image-to-video model, please add an extra parameter `--image_encoder_path "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-I2V-14B-480P/models_clip_open-clip-xlm-roberta-large-vit-huge-14.pth"`.

For LoRA training, the Wan-1.3B-T2V model requires 16G of VRAM for processing 81 frames at 480P, while the Wan-14B-T2V model requires 60G of VRAM for the same configuration. To further reduce VRAM requirements by 20%-30%, you can include the parameter `--use_gradient_checkpointing_offload`.

Step 5: Test

Test LoRA:

```python
import torch
from diffsynth import ModelManager, WanVideoPipeline, save_video, VideoData


model_manager = ModelManager(torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16, device="cpu")
model_manager.load_models([
    "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/diffusion_pytorch_model.safetensors",
    "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/models_t5_umt5-xxl-enc-bf16.pth",
    "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/Wan2.1_VAE.pth",
])
model_manager.load_lora("models/lightning_logs/version_1/checkpoints/epoch=0-step=500.ckpt", lora_alpha=1.0)
pipe = WanVideoPipeline.from_model_manager(model_manager, device="cuda")
pipe.enable_vram_management(num_persistent_param_in_dit=None)

video = pipe(
    prompt="...",
    negative_prompt="...",
    num_inference_steps=50,
    seed=0, tiled=True
)
save_video(video, "video.mp4", fps=30, quality=5)
```

Test fine-tuned base model:

```python
import torch
from diffsynth import ModelManager, WanVideoPipeline, save_video, VideoData


model_manager = ModelManager(torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16, device="cpu")
model_manager.load_models([
    "models/lightning_logs/version_1/checkpoints/epoch=0-step=500.ckpt",
    "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/models_t5_umt5-xxl-enc-bf16.pth",
    "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/Wan2.1_VAE.pth",
])
pipe = WanVideoPipeline.from_model_manager(model_manager, device="cuda")
pipe.enable_vram_management(num_persistent_param_in_dit=None)

video = pipe(
    prompt="...",
    negative_prompt="...",
    num_inference_steps=50,
    seed=0, tiled=True
)
save_video(video, "video.mp4", fps=30, quality=5)
```

Commit message:

support wan tensor parallel (preview)

examples/wanvideo/README.md, after:

# Wan-Video

Wan-Video is a collection of video synthesis models open-sourced by Alibaba.

Before using this model, please install DiffSynth-Studio from **source code**.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/modelscope/DiffSynth-Studio.git
cd DiffSynth-Studio
pip install -e .
```

Wan-Video supports multiple Attention implementations. If you have installed any of the following Attention implementations, they will be enabled based on priority.

* [Flash Attention 3](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention)
* [Flash Attention 2](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention)
* [Sage Attention](https://github.com/thu-ml/SageAttention)
* [torch SDPA](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.functional.scaled_dot_product_attention.html) (default. `torch>=2.5.0` is recommended.)

## Inference

### Wan-Video-1.3B-T2V

Wan-Video-1.3B-T2V supports text-to-video and video-to-video. See [`./wan_1.3b_text_to_video.py`](./wan_1.3b_text_to_video.py).

Required VRAM: 6G

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/124397be-cd6a-4f29-a87c-e4c695aaabb8

Put sunglasses on the dog.

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/272808d7-fbeb-4747-a6df-14a0860c75fb

[TeaCache](https://github.com/ali-vilab/TeaCache) is supported in both T2V and I2V models. It can significantly improve the efficiency. See [`./wan_1.3b_text_to_video_accelerate.py`](./wan_1.3b_text_to_video_accelerate.py).

### Wan-Video-14B-T2V

Wan-Video-14B-T2V is an enhanced version of Wan-Video-1.3B-T2V, offering greater size and power. To utilize this model, you need additional VRAM. We recommend that users adjust the `torch_dtype` and `num_persistent_param_in_dit` settings to find an optimal balance between speed and VRAM requirements. See [`./wan_14b_text_to_video.py`](./wan_14b_text_to_video.py).

We present a detailed table here. The model is tested on a single A100.

|`torch_dtype`|`num_persistent_param_in_dit`|Speed|Required VRAM|Default Setting|
|-|-|-|-|-|
|torch.bfloat16|None (unlimited)|18.5s/it|40G||
|torch.bfloat16|7*10**9 (7B)|20.8s/it|24G||
|torch.bfloat16|0|23.4s/it|10G||
|torch.float8_e4m3fn|None (unlimited)|18.3s/it|24G|yes|
|torch.float8_e4m3fn|0|24.0s/it|10G||

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3908bc64-d451-485a-8b61-28f6d32dd92f

Tensor parallel module of Wan-Video-14B-T2V is still under development. An example script is provided in [`./wan_14b_text_to_video_tensor_parallel.py`](./wan_14b_text_to_video_tensor_parallel.py).

### Wan-Video-14B-I2V

Wan-Video-14B-I2V adds the functionality of image-to-video based on Wan-Video-14B-T2V. The model size remains the same, therefore the speed and VRAM requirements are also consistent. See [`./wan_14b_image_to_video.py`](./wan_14b_image_to_video.py).

**In the sample code, we use the same settings as the T2V 14B model, with FP8 quantization enabled by default. However, we found that this model is more sensitive to precision, so when the generated video content experiences issues such as artifacts, please switch to bfloat16 precision and use the `num_persistent_param_in_dit` parameter to control VRAM usage.**

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/adf8047f-7943-4aaa-a555-2b32dc415f39)

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c0bdd5ca-292f-45ed-b9bc-afe193156e75

## Train

We support Wan-Video LoRA training and full training. Here is a tutorial. This is an experimental feature. Below is a video sample generated from the character Keqing LoRA:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9bd8e30b-97e8-44f9-bb6f-da004ba376a9

Step 1: Install additional packages

```
pip install peft lightning pandas
```

Step 2: Prepare your dataset

You need to manage the training videos as follows:

```
data/example_dataset/
├── metadata.csv
└── train
    ├── video_00001.mp4
    └── image_00002.jpg
```

`metadata.csv`:

```
file_name,text
video_00001.mp4,"video description"
image_00002.jpg,"video description"
```

We support both images and videos. An image is treated as a single frame of video.

Step 3: Data process

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES="0" python examples/wanvideo/train_wan_t2v.py \
  --task data_process \
  --dataset_path data/example_dataset \
  --output_path ./models \
  --text_encoder_path "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/models_t5_umt5-xxl-enc-bf16.pth" \
  --vae_path "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/Wan2.1_VAE.pth" \
  --tiled \
  --num_frames 81 \
  --height 480 \
  --width 832
```

After that, some cached files will be stored in the dataset folder.

```
data/example_dataset/
├── metadata.csv
└── train
    ├── video_00001.mp4
    ├── video_00001.mp4.tensors.pth
    ├── video_00002.mp4
    └── video_00002.mp4.tensors.pth
```

Step 4: Train

LoRA training:

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES="0" python examples/wanvideo/train_wan_t2v.py \
  --task train \
  --train_architecture lora \
  --dataset_path data/example_dataset \
  --output_path ./models \
  --dit_path "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/diffusion_pytorch_model.safetensors" \
  --steps_per_epoch 500 \
  --max_epochs 10 \
  --learning_rate 1e-4 \
  --lora_rank 16 \
  --lora_alpha 16 \
  --lora_target_modules "q,k,v,o,ffn.0,ffn.2" \
  --accumulate_grad_batches 1 \
  --use_gradient_checkpointing
```

Full training:

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES="0" python examples/wanvideo/train_wan_t2v.py \
  --task train \
  --train_architecture full \
  --dataset_path data/example_dataset \
  --output_path ./models \
  --dit_path "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/diffusion_pytorch_model.safetensors" \
  --steps_per_epoch 500 \
  --max_epochs 10 \
  --learning_rate 1e-4 \
  --accumulate_grad_batches 1 \
  --use_gradient_checkpointing
```

If you wish to train the 14B model, please separate the safetensor files with a comma. For example: `models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00001-of-00006.safetensors,models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00002-of-00006.safetensors,models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00003-of-00006.safetensors,models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00004-of-00006.safetensors,models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00005-of-00006.safetensors,models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-14B/diffusion_pytorch_model-00006-of-00006.safetensors`.

If you wish to train the image-to-video model, please add an extra parameter `--image_encoder_path "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-I2V-14B-480P/models_clip_open-clip-xlm-roberta-large-vit-huge-14.pth"`.

For LoRA training, the Wan-1.3B-T2V model requires 16G of VRAM for processing 81 frames at 480P, while the Wan-14B-T2V model requires 60G of VRAM for the same configuration. To further reduce VRAM requirements by 20%-30%, you can include the parameter `--use_gradient_checkpointing_offload`.

Step 5: Test

Test LoRA:

```python
import torch
from diffsynth import ModelManager, WanVideoPipeline, save_video, VideoData


model_manager = ModelManager(torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16, device="cpu")
model_manager.load_models([
    "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/diffusion_pytorch_model.safetensors",
    "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/models_t5_umt5-xxl-enc-bf16.pth",
    "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/Wan2.1_VAE.pth",
])
model_manager.load_lora("models/lightning_logs/version_1/checkpoints/epoch=0-step=500.ckpt", lora_alpha=1.0)
pipe = WanVideoPipeline.from_model_manager(model_manager, device="cuda")
pipe.enable_vram_management(num_persistent_param_in_dit=None)

video = pipe(
    prompt="...",
    negative_prompt="...",
    num_inference_steps=50,
    seed=0, tiled=True
)
save_video(video, "video.mp4", fps=30, quality=5)
```

Test fine-tuned base model:

```python
import torch
from diffsynth import ModelManager, WanVideoPipeline, save_video, VideoData


model_manager = ModelManager(torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16, device="cpu")
model_manager.load_models([
    "models/lightning_logs/version_1/checkpoints/epoch=0-step=500.ckpt",
    "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/models_t5_umt5-xxl-enc-bf16.pth",
    "models/Wan-AI/Wan2.1-T2V-1.3B/Wan2.1_VAE.pth",
])
pipe = WanVideoPipeline.from_model_manager(model_manager, device="cuda")
pipe.enable_vram_management(num_persistent_param_in_dit=None)

video = pipe(
    prompt="...",
    negative_prompt="...",
    num_inference_steps=50,
    seed=0, tiled=True
)
save_video(video, "video.mp4", fps=30, quality=5)
```
